---
title: 'A mindset shift and .charCodeAt() & .fromCharCode()'
excerpt: "I've recently (aka today) started doing CodeWars problems ago. Here is what I learned today"
coverImage: ''
date: '2024-09-03T05:35:07.322Z'
---

## Mindset

Today, I went to the gym to attend a yoga class. When I walked into the studio, there was a sub I've taken classes with before. She is totally out of touch with what is safe for non-bendy people to do and I've been injured by her adejustments before. In consideration of my future self, I immediately walked back out after thinking about enduring her class. I didn't want to waste the time I'd set out for _me_ so, I went to the sauna instead. Needing something to occupy my brain for the hour, I decided to put on the CodeNewbies podcast. 

The [podcast](https://www.codenewbie.org/podcast/being-open-to-the-unexpected) featured an interview with Katherine Evans, an engineer/educator. I won't go into exhaustive details about what they talked about, but one thing that stuck out was that Evans mentioned practicing coding _every_ day. I've recently started to cultivate this mindset about fitness, seeking to do some form of intentional movement every single day for a designated period of time and it has paid dividens in just six weeks with strength and energy gains. As I was sitting in the sauna, sweating like a pig and counting down the minutes until I could leave, I distracted myself with the question, "Why am I not 'training' on coding everyday like I am with exercise? It is my biggest goal, to become a competent developer, so why haven't I been working towards that outside of work?" Don't get me wrong; I work as a programmer, so I am writing code five days a week. But, I am not intentionally practicing new concepts outside of work, or working on improving my problem solving abilities on a daily basis. 

So, all that to say, I am going to start doing CodeWars every day again. It was a habit I had before I started working, but I fell out of it over the last six months. I love writing code and I love when my code looks good. However, I kind of suck at writing code still. What way to get better than deliberate practice?! Can't think of a single idea that tops that one... 

## First CodeWars back 

Today's CodeWars [kata](https://www.codewars.com/kata/6512b3775bf8500baea77663/train/javascript) was a 7kyu. The problem was like so: 

    // Given a string indicating a range of letters, return a string which includes all the letters in that range, including the last letter.
    // Note that if the range is given in capital letters, return the string in capitals also!

So, this seems simple, right? Well, here is my laughable (but working!) solution: 
```
const findLetter = (val) => {
    const str = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'
    const Str = 'ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'
    const split = val.split('-')
    const a = split[0]
    const b = split[1]
    if( a === b){
        return a
    }
    if(str.includes(b)){
        const letter1 = str.split(a) 
        const str2 = letter1[1]
        const letter2 = str2.split(b)
        const result = a + letter2[0] + b
       console.log(result)
    } else if( Str.includes(b)){
        const letter1 = Str.split(a) 
        const str2 = letter1[1]
        const letter2 = str2.split(b)
        const result = a + letter2[0] + b
       console.log(result)
    }
}
```

On CodeWars, once you submit your solution, you can see other's solutions in an 'most upvoted' descending order. Thank God for that, because you can get better. So, the most upvoted solution for this problem involved methods and concepts I've never heard of. Here is the solution: 
```
function gimmeTheLetters(sp) {
    // Extract the first and last letters from the range
    const [start, end] = sp.split('-')
    // Convert the letters to their ASCII codes
    const startCode = start.charCodeAt(0);
    const endCode = end.charCodeAt(0)
    // Generate the string of letters
      let result = '';
      for (let i = startCode; i <= endCode; i++) {
          result += String.fromCharCode(i);
      }
  
      return result;
  }
```

So, first off, this person used destructuring to store the results generated from `sp.split('-')`. I love that for them! Then they convert the letters to ASCII codes... I had no idea what those were before. Turns out, every symbol possible for use in a computer has a code that can be boiled down into a binary code (duh). There is a JavaScript method called `.charCodeAt()` that will return the dec code for that character. So, an uppercase A is 65 and a lowercase a is 97. Once the program gets the dec code for the first element in the split array, it then runs a loop starting at the number for the first dec code and ending at the last dec code. Inside the loop, it then uses the static method `String.fromCharCode(i)` to get symbol associated with the dec code and add each letter to the the `results` string. Smartly, `results` is already a string as it is declared as an empty string.

I love seeing the smart ways that people create solutions to these problems. It is so inspiring to find really clean, efficient, and readable solutions to the problems in CodeWars. Fingers crossed that in six weeks, I'll start to be writing some better code myself! 

